---
layout: post
title: Setup Common Lisp Development Environment by SLIME and Emacs
---


<div class="message">
  SLIME is the "Superior Lisp Interaction Mode for Emacs".SLIME extends Emacs with support for interactive programming in Common Lisp.The Features are centered around slime-mode,an Emacs minor-mode that complements the standard lisp-mode.
</div>

## Prerequisites

-**Install a Lisp implementation**

There are lots of Lisp implementations,such as Steel Bank Common Lisp,Clozure Common Lisp.We can get a binary package of CLISP easily by:

{% highlight sh %}
sudo apt-get install clisp
{% endhighlight %}

-**Install Emacs**

{% highlight sh %}
sudo apt-get install emacs24
{% endhighlight %}

-**Install SLIME**

Get a duplication of SLIME from <a href="http://common-lisp.net/project/slime/">here</a>,and put it in a location with whole permission.

## Configure the Emacs

Start Emacs and open ~/.emacs (if not exists,create one).Configure SLIME as below:

{% highlight elisp %}
(add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/slime")
(require 'slime-autoloads)
(setq inferior-lisp-program "/usr/bin/clisp")
{% endhighlight %}

## Usage

Start Emacs,input M-x slime and just have fun with Common Lisp!

You can also binding a shortcut for SLIME,just adding:

{% highlight elisp %}
(global-set-key (kbd "C-x j") 'slime)
{% endhighlight %}

## Shortcuts binding in official documents

**Key bindings**

C-h k <key> describe-key “What does this key do?”

Describes current function bound to <key> for focus buffer.

C-h b describe-bindings “Exactly what bindings are available?”

Lists the current key-bindings for the focus buffer.

C-h m describe-mode “Tell me all about this mode”

Shows all the available major mode keys, then the minor mode keys, for the modes of the focus buffer.

C-h l view-lossage “Woah, what key chord did I just do?”

Shows you the literal sequence of keys you’ve pressed in order.

**Evaluation commands**

C-x C-e

M-x slime-eval-last-expression

Evaluate the expression before point and show the result in the echo area.

C-M-x

M-x slime-eval-defun

Evaluate the current toplevel form and show the result in the echo area. ‘C-M-x’treats ‘defvar’ expressions specially. Normally, evaluating a ‘defvar’ expressiondoes nothing if the variable it defines already has a value. But ‘C-M-x’ un-conditionally resets the variable to the initial value specified in the ‘defvar’expression. This special feature is convenient for debugging Lisp programs.If C-M-x or C-x C-e is given a numeric argument, it inserts the value into the currentbuffer, rather than displaying it in the echo area.

C-c :

M-x slime-interactive-eval

Evaluate an expression read from the minibuffer.

C-c C-r

M-x slime-eval-region

Evaluate the region.

C-c C-p

M-x slime-pprint-eval-last-expression

Evaluate the expression before point and pretty-print the result in a fresh buffer.

C-c E

M-x slime-edit-value

Edit the value of a setf-able form in a new buffer ‘*Edit <form>*’. The value isinserted into a temporary buffer for editing and then set in Lisp when committedwith C-c C-c.

C-x M-e

M-x slime-eval-last-expression-display-output

Display the output buffer and evaluate the expression preceding point. This is useful if the expression writes something to the output stream.

C-c C-u

M-x slime-undefine-function

Undefine the function, with fmakunbound, for the symbol at point.

**Compilation commands**

SLIME has fancy commands for compiling functions, files, and packages. The fancy part is
that notes and warnings offered by the Lisp compiler are intercepted and annotated directly
onto the corresponding expressions in the Lisp source buffer. (Give it a try to see what this
means.)

C-c C-c

M-x slime-compile-defun

Compile the top-level form at point. The region blinks shortly to give some
feedback which part was chosen.
With (positive) prefix argument the form is compiled with maximal debug set-
tings (C-u C-c C-c). With negative prefix argument it is compiled for speed
(M-- C-c C-c). If a numeric argument is passed set debug or speed settings to
it depending on its sign.
The code for the region is executed after compilation. In principle, the command
writes the region to a file, compiles that file, and loads the resulting code.

C-c C-k

M-x slime-compile-and-load-file

Compile and load the current buffer’s source file. If the compilation step fails,
the file is not loaded. It’s not always easy to tell whether the compilation failed:
occasionally you may end up in the debugger during the load step.
With (positive) prefix argument the file is compiled with maximal debug set-
tings (C-u C-c C-k). With negative prefix argument it is compiled for speed
(M-- C-c C-k). If a numeric argument is passed set debug or speed settings to
it depending on its sign.

C-c M-k

M-x slime-compile-file

Compile (but don’t load) the current buffer’s source file.

C-c C-l

M-x slime-load-file

Load a Lisp file. This command uses the Common Lisp LOAD function.

M-x slime-compile-region

Compile the selected region.
The annotations are indicated as underlining on source forms. The compiler message
associated with an annotation can be read either by placing the mouse over the text or with
the selection commands below.

M-n

M-x slime-next-note

Move the point to the next compiler note and displays the note.

M-p

M-x slime-previous-note

Move the point to the previous compiler note and displays the note.

C-c M-c

M-x slime-remove-notes

Remove all annotations from the buffer.

C-x ‘

M-x next-error

Visit the next-error message. This is not actually a SLIME command but SLIME
creates a hidden buffer so that most of the Compilation mode commands (See
Info file ‘emacs’, node ‘Compilation Mode’) work similarly for Lisp as for batch
compilers.